---
layout: default
title: "Week 2: September 12th - September 19th"
date: 2017-09-12
published: true
excerpt_separator: <excerpt>
---
Journal: Week 9/12- 9/19
This week was really busy for me because of the career fair and a paper I had due. I was not able to get in a full ten hours but I was able to get in a few and I plan to make up next week.

My mentor Srividya Bansal sent our team a bunch of resources on Linked Data and its applications. These papers were mostly the results of other research projects on linked data. One was on a project that focused on creating ontologies for geographical data in China because not much is available in existing ontologies. Another was on gathering information about soil that is useful for civil engineering and other infrastructure fields as well as agriculture, which is the domain that soil ontologies usually focus on. These got me thinking about the problems we might face in our research. Obviously, we need to make an ontology. I think hat is one off the biggest problem in the semantic web: there is simply not enough data out there. The soil property research might not have needed to be done if other soil ontologies focused on diverse topics related to soil instead of focusing on agriculture. But, I guess that is just part of the web’s development. I grew up with a hypertext web that was just always there, there was always all this information. But there really wasn’t, and I guess that’s how it’s staring with the semantic web too. Other problem is of gathering the data and checking it. The Chinese geography project gathered 600k concepts and created 7 million links. A lot of this was done automatically and some of it was not, additionally some of the checking was done automatically and some was not. I would like to see more details about the technology that gathered the information. I also would like to see how they checked it automatically; it was created by a computer and now it needs to be checked, so you check it with another computer? I plan on doing more research into this an other projects, maybe check out their algorithms.

All in all, even if I did not work for a full ten hours, I think this was a productive week still. I will be putting in an extra 3.5 hours for the next two weeks to make up for this week.
